DECONWOLF(1)								       DECONWOLF(1)

NAME
       deconwolf dw is a tool for deconvolution of wide field microscopy stacks.

       dw  dots is the module that can be used to detect dots in tif images and export them
       to a tsv file.  It uses a Laplacian of Gaussian (LoG) filter for	 initial  detection
       and can further calculate full width half max (FWHM) by interpolation if wanted.

SYNOPSIS
       dw dots [OPTIONS] file1.tif file2.tif ...

OPTIONS
       --lsigma
	      Lateral sigma for a Gaussian low pass filter or the LoG filter if enabled.

       --asigma
	      Axial sigma for a Gaussian low pass filter or the LoG filter if enabled.

       --overwrite
	      If specified existing files will be overwritten.

       --threads t
	      Set the number of computational threads to use.

       --fout file.tif
	      Write out the filtered images (e.g. the LoG filtered image).  Only for debug‐
	      ging and only to be used when there is just one input file.

       --ndots
	      Specify the max amount of dots that should be exported.

       --help Show a brief help message

       --nthreads
	      Specify the number of threads to use.

       --verbose
	      Set the verbosity level.

Method
       dw dots will read one input image at a time and will perform the following:

       • Filter the image with LoG filter  using  the  values  specified  by  --lsigma	and
	 --asigma  (or automatically set if you specify the optical parameters as described
	 below).

       • Extract all local maxima.

       • Sort the maxima according to the dot intensity.

       • Calculate the FWHM value for each dot in the lateral plane (by intersection).

       • Write out at most --ndots dots to a TSV file.

INPUT
       dw dots can read the same kind of files as dw.  It does look for log files from	de‐
       conwolf, and if one is found the input image is rescaled according to the log file.

       The  size  of the LoG filter is determined by lsigma and asigma, which coincide with
       the zero crossings of the LoG.  If you don’t know how to set those values, then,	 as
       an  alternative,	 you  can  specify  --NA, --ni, --lambda, --dx and --dz instead and
       those parameters will be used to set the sigma values.  In that case sigma  will	 be
       set to the fwhm in each direction.  That gives a filter that is slightly larger than
       what would be optimal for diffraction limited dots.

OUTPUT
       A TSV file will be generated per input file  (.dots.tsv)	 as  well  as  a  log  file
       (.dots.log.txt).	 The TSV file will be sorted by the dot intensities.

SEE ALSO
       dw, dw_bw

WEB PAGE
       <https://github.com/elgw/deconwolf/>

REPORTING BUGS
       Please report bugs at <https://github.com/elgw/deconwolf/issues/>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright  ©  2022  Erik	 Wernersson.   License	GPLv3+:	 GNU GPL version 3 or later
       <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.  This is free software: you are free to  change
       and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

AUTHORS
       Erik Wernersson.

dw 0.3.8				    2022			       DECONWOLF(1)
