This module can be used to detect of diffraction limited spots in 3D images,
and also to localize them with sub pixel precision (--fitting) and measure
some properties of the detected spots.

Initial spot detection is performed using a Laplacian of Gaussian filter.

The optional fitting (--fitting) enables a maximum likelihood fitting of each
spot against a Gaussian model.

It is not intended for 2D images but can probably handle that as well.

The input is always a single tif images. If the input file starts with 'dw_',
then the program will look for the corresponding log file written by deconwolf
to parse the scaling value, which will be used to scale the image.

usage: dots [<options>] input.tif input2.tif ...

The program needs to know how large the spots are,
specify that either by the optical parameters below
or by --sigma_l and --sigma_a

  --NA NA
	Set numerical aperture
  --ni ni
	Set refractive index
  --dx dx
	Lateral pixel size [nm]
  --dz dz
	Axial pixel size [nm]
  --lambda l
	Emission wave length [nm]

Alternative to the 5 parameters above:
  --sigma_a sigma
        Axial size of spots when fitted to a Gaussian [pixels]
  --sigma_l sigma
        Lateral size of spots when fitted to a Gaussian [pixels]

Recommended arguments:
  --ndots n
	Number of dots to export (default M x N x 0.005)
  --fitting
        Enable fitting of detected spots. Obviously this will option will
        prolong the run-time.

Additional options
  --background file.tif
	A multiplicative background model. The input image will be divided by
        this image. If the background is a 2D image, each plane of the input
        image will be divided by the background model image.
  --nscale n
	Set the number of scales to use, i.e., this enables
        multi-scale spot detection. Default value = 1.
  --swell f
	Tell the program how much larger the dots are compared to
        the diffraction limit. Default = 1, i.e. diffraction limited dots
        For some experiments values up to 2 makes sense
  --overwrite
	Overwrite existing files (default 0)
  --help
	Show this message
  --logfile file.txt
	Specify where the log file should be written
        (default <input file>.log.txt)
  --verbose v
	Verbosity level (default 1)
  --nthreads n
	Set the number of computational threads
  --fout file.tif
	Write filtered image -- for debugging
  --test
        Run some self-tests.
  --snr1
        Toggles calculation of 'snr1' using the spots detected in the current
        image, but using the pixel value from the image with the same name but
        without the dw_ prefix. If the file name does not start with dw_, you
        can specify the image to apply the operation on with the --orig flag.
        Note: The --background correction is not applied before this measurement
              since we are after the inherent spot quality.
  --orig file.tif
        The origin of the image, i.e. if the program is run on a deconvolved,
        image, this would be the non-deconvolved file. Currently only used to
        calculate the 'snr1_orig' feature when combined with --snr1.
        Note1: Will not work when processing more than one file.
        Note2: If the file contains 'dw_' the program automatically look
               for an orig file without that prefix. Making this argument
               superfluous.


If you want to control the filter size for the Laplacian of Gaussian,
skip the optical parameters above and set the filter sizes manually by:

  --log_ls sigma
	Lateral sigma (location of zero-crossing)
  --log_as sigma
	Axial sigma (location of zero-crossing)

Outputs:
  - Log messages will be written to [input file].log.txt
  - Dots will be exported to [input file].dots.tsv

See the man page or the online documentation for more information.
